hi i'm alex from e2 language in this
lesson is lesson from home i'm going to
talk to you about IELTS general writing
task 1 i want to explain to you what
happens in IELTS general writing task 1
and importantly i'm going to share with
you information about the marking
criteria i'm going to show you what an
examiner thinks about as they mark your
work and what you should be thinking
about as you write as well let's get
into it
IELTS general writing task 1 overview
let's start with the main question the
important question what is task 1 well
you're always gonna write a letter in
general task 1 you get a prompt which
looks something like this so we have
instructions at the top here you should
spend about 20 minutes on this task now
remember that the IELTS writing test
takes 60 minutes and it's up to you to
divide task 1 and task 2 they recommend
spending 20 minutes on this task and we
do two here at e2 task 1 is only worth
one third of your writing score so don't
spend longer than that now under here
we've got more instructions write at
least 150 words also important
information you should aim for more like
200 you do not need to write any
addresses begin your letter as follows
dear
now sometimes they'll tell you how to
begin dear sir or madam sometimes that's
not there now this one because it says
dear sir or madam I know that it's a
formal letter and the task will tell me
that too the task is hearing the Box
let's read you were hurt in a small
accident in a store last week by the
letter to the store manager in your
letter introduce yourself
describe what happened saying what
action you would like the manager to
take now these three points here 1 2 3
these are the bullet points and the
criteria refers to these explicitly and
it's important to know what they are
we'll come to that in a moment they're
basically three different letter types
that you might get in IELTS general task
1 and we cover them all in our course
and we cover them regularly in the live
classes as well one of them is formal
this is when you write a letter to
someone you have never met it might be
the manager of a hotel or a newspaper
editor something like that you could
also get a semi formal letter which is a
letter to someone that you know but not
on a personal basis so you might know
their name but you wouldn't refer to
them with their first name this could be
your manager at work or perhaps
landlord and a third type of letter is
informal or casual this is when you're
asked to write a letter to a friend or a
family member the good news is even
though there are three different types
of letters and a limited number of
people you might be asked to write to
here at eg we always follow the same
structure so if you follow this you are
on the right track to a good score so
this is the e to letters structure and
it's pretty simple we start with a
greeting dear then we go straight into
the introduction or the purpose and
sometimes both together so you want to
say in some cases you want to say who
you are and in all cases you want to say
why you're writing say it early then we
get into body 1 this is a little
paragraph and it is all about bullet
point 1 remember that from the task our
body - of course is bullet point 2 and
you guessed it bunny three bullet point
three now we put each one into its own
little paragraph then we have an ending
we wrap up the letter sign-off could be
yours faithfully yours sincerely warm
wishes and your name and that's it
follow this letter structure for all
letters you can't go wrong
now of course each letter is going to be
quite different in terms of language and
tone so for more information about how
to write a formal informal and casual
letter make sure you check out those
relevant sections in the platform at e2
language comm when you come to the
course on e to language comm click here
and then go to writing task 1 so here
you'll find an overview section with an
overview of the tests which I've already
given you a video about marking and you
can download the official criteria from
here then we've got a section on formal
semi formal and informal letters within
each section you'll find a quick
overview what is an informal letter a
methods video really really important
here and then samples activities and
practice for you to do as well so
now you know what you have to do in
IELTS general task 1 but how do you get
your score and more importantly how do
you get a really good score for that we
need to look at the marking criteria
you've probably seen this document
before you can google it to find it or
you can download it from your course on
a to language this is the public version
of the writing task 1 banned descriptors
and there are 4 criteria they are task
achievement coherence and cohesion
lexical resource grammatical range and
accuracy and an examiner gives you a
score for each one they give you a score
from well from zero which is if you
didn't turn up all the way up to 9 which
is for an expert speaker now there's
obviously a lot of information in here
but I'm gonna distill for you from down
7 to 9 what you need to do to score well
those criteria again our task
achievement coherence and cohesion
lexical resource and grammatical range
and accuracy let's look at them in a
little more detail what is task
achievement how can you score well so in
this part it's all about presenting a
clear purpose to your letter now by the
way this is all included in that very
detailed criteria sheet that I showed
you so feel free to have a look for
yourself this is just a simplified
version so the examiner wants you to
present a clear purpose to your letter
use an appropriate tone that
consistently purpose tone present an
extent each bullet point remember those
three points on the task are and be sure
to include only relevant information
let's look at these first two the
purpose and the tone with reference to
the beginning of three separate letters
so up here we've got a letter beginning
dear sir or madam in the middle dear
mister long down the bottom dear Carlos
and Paula now this is reflective of a
formal beginning semi formal and casual
and that's exactly what we've got here
okay so remember I mentioned the
importance of purpose and tone let's
look at this formal letter first
paragraph or first opening a couple of
sentences it begins I am writing in
connection with my recent stay at your
hotel the Hilton in Toronto last month
unfortunately due to a malfunctioning
in my room my short holiday turned into
a disaster so as a reader as an examiner
I know what this person is writing about
they have a complaint about a stay in
the hotel so it's very clear the purpose
is clear to me and also the tone is
appropriate I am rising in connection
with sono contractions here
unfortunately due to now functioning all
of this is language that you wouldn't
use if you were writing to a friend
right so this is formal impersonal and
quite polite even though it's a
complaint letter down here semi formal
letter do you mr. Lumm I am writing to
ask for an extension on my next rent
payment which is due on the 3rd of
November so this is a letter to
landlords or somebody that you know but
not very well
again the purpose is clear immediately
why are you writing I'm writing to ask
for an extension on my rent and also
formal tone I am writing to ask for
which is due you wouldn't write so
formally if you're writing to a friend
so appropriate tone clear purpose what
about a casual letter let's see dear
Carlos and Paula I'm just writing look
at that different tone here I'm just
writing to thank you both so much so a
different time but still clear purpose
why are you writing I'm writing to thank
you both so much for your letter in the
lovely photos of my holiday in editing
more great memories again casual
exclamation point totally different tone
to this letter and this letter so these
are three examples of how important
purpose and tone can be even in the
first couple of sentences this is
something that we work on all the time
in life classes so that was purpose and
tone the other two in Tusker treatment
are presenting and extending each bullet
point and including only relevant
information so I'll just show you an
example of a full task one this is a
semi-formal letter
starting with dear mr. long ending with
your sincerely by the way we cover the
opening and closing of these in our
methods videos in the course but what
you'll notice when you look at these is
there's the opening here with the
purpose and then this is bullet point
one bullet point two bullet point three
to see how they are quite detailed
there's two or three sentences to deal
with each bullet point so an examiner
looks for this pretty much straightaway
they'll check is your purpose clear then
they'll say okay where's bullet one
where's bullet - where's bullet three if
you miss bullet three that's going to be
a disaster for your task achievement
score you drop down to five or four but
if you've got all three you've presented
them and the examiner is also looking
have you extended them so you haven't
just written a really short sentence one
two three you've added extra detail in
there I'll let you read this in your own
time and see how I've done that the
other thing to keep in mind as you write
is relevance remember that was the
fourth little checkbox on the task
achievement screen so yes you want to
add a bit more detail to each of your
bullet points but don't go wildly
off-topic make sure you're still writing
something which is relevant to mr. long
so you know always keep in mind who
you're writing to and what you're
writing to them for so extend but don't
get irrelevant so those are four things
to keep in mind and that's just the
first criterion let's go a little
quicker through the other three
community cohesion is next this is all
about linking and organization to do
well you need to organize your
information logically how do you do that
it's easy
you need to plan first you also need to
use paragraphs that's a big difference
to writing tasks - but in the sample I
just showed you you notice how those
small paragraphs made my work quite
clear and just like tasks - you need to
use a range of linking devices
appropriately in the methods video as we
go into this in quite some detail so
make sure you check them out the third
criterion is lexical resource and fancy
way to say in vocabulary to do well here
just like in task 2 you need to
demonstrate a wide range of vocabulary
show the examiner what you've got use
vocabulary precisely as well don't throw
in a word that is not suitable and be
sure to spell correctly with your doing
the test on the computer this is
particularly relevant
beware of typos always edit edit at the
end and the fourth criterion is
grammatical range and accuracy to do
well here you going to demonstrate a
wide range of structures remember the
examiner can only mark what you show
them they can't mark what's in your head
or what you know make sure you
demonstrate it be sure to use some
complex structures as well and we have a
link to a video on this in the
description below and just like vocab
use your grammar accurately again this
could be a manner of editing it's also a
matter of preparation do you know how to
use your tenses correctly prepositions
articles all of that will come into play
here and the last one use correct
punctuation be careful with full stops
capital letters and commas so here's the
full public version of the writing task
1 banned descriptives again make sure
you download it and have a read through
if you want more information and be sure
to jump into the course the writing task
1 section on your e to language course
where you'll see more information about
this and in the practice activities
you'll also be able to assess your own
work using our version of the criteria
like most things in IELTS preparation
it's all about practice make sure you
don't turn up to your tests and write
your first ever letter under test
conditions before the exam before the
test you should have written IELTS
letters formal informal semi-formal over
and over and over sometimes with the
timer on sometimes without the timer on
so my first bit of advice to you or what
you should do first is start with the
course materials go on to e to language
comm click on IELTS writing task 1 watch
our methods videos do the practice
activities have
the samples then or in addition come
along to our live classes so we have
three writing tasks one classes each
week and we cover really really
important stuff related to the criteria
so make sure you sign up for those
classes if you can't make it click on
the recorded classes section as part of
your e to language package and you can
watch all the videos in there and if you
really want to improve then you're going
to need feedback and we can help you
there as well you know writing intensive
package you can get three tasks ones if
you have bronze silver or gold you get
assessments included in your package
when the teacher assesses your work we
look really carefully at your grandma
and vocab but we also look at task
achievement coherence and cohesion and
provide you with lots of feedback on
where you are and how you can improve so
make sure you take advantage of that if
you've got those packages with us well
that's it from me I look forward to
seeing you in a live class really soon
take care